All Scripture is inspired of God.
Now, let's stop right there and unpack that statement because there's a lot to unpack.
Let's take the last part first, inspired of God.
Now, you know what that means.
It means that God put His thoughts into the mind of man and then men wrote them down.
You know what that means.
But now, when you tell a householder from house to house that the Bible is inspired by God,
does the householder necessarily know what you mean?
Not necessarily.
Why not?
Because the word inspired is thrown around rather casually today.
This motion picture was inspired by real events.
God is not in the picture.
A poet or a songwriter is inspired by a sunset.
And so, if the householder doesn't have a strong Bible background,
it's not likely that he understands what you mean when you say that the Bible is inspired by God.
And you'll have to explain that the Bible is God's thoughts about men and not man's thoughts about God.
But now, we're going to spend most of our time on the first part of our text, all Scripture.
And we have to ask, how did Paul and the other Bible writers and the early Christians
and the first century, how did they determine which writings were inspired and which were not?
Now, we'll examine three Bible texts that illustrate the problem.
Now, let's turn to Luke chapter 1 and verse 1.
I'll give you a moment.
And our goal in reading this text is to see, is there a problem with determining whether writing is inspired or not?
Luke chapter 1, verse 1.
And Luke writes, seeing that many have undertaken to compile an account of the facts that are given full credence among us,
what is Luke saying?
There were many gospels of Jesus Christ in the first century.
And yet only four of them were accepted as inspired.
Now, how was that determined?
Did the Christians put a bunch of manuscripts on the table?
And I like this one. This one, not so much.
That wouldn't be a very good way to determine which books were canonical or not.
Now, as a second illustration, or example, Paul's first letter to the Corinthians was not Paul's first letter to the Corinthians.
If you turn to 1 Corinthians 5 and verse 9, you'll see what I mean.
1 Corinthians 5 and verse 9.
And here Paul writes in his first letter to the Corinthians,
in my letter, I wrote you to stop keeping company with sexually immoral people.
So, there was a previous letter before what we now call Paul's first letter to the Corinthians.
I guess if you want to be picky, you would call this one Paul's first inspired letter to the Corinthians.
But now that previous letter was never accepted as part of the Bible canon.
Why not? Was it a good letter? No doubt it was.
Was it accurate in every way? Maybe? Maybe not.
It wasn't inspired.
Now, why do we say it may be not?
Well, insight made a very interesting comment about the writings of Bible writers when they were not writing under inspiration.
And speaking of these writings, insight says that they may have reflected to some degree the incomplete understanding that existed in the early years of the Christian congregation.
So, if someone was just writing for himself, writing a letter to some congregation or some brother, maybe the disciple James,
he's writing to someone early on before the decision of circumcision is made.
And he says, well, it's probably best for Gentile Christians to be circumcised.
He might have said something like that.
But then, of course, when the decision was made under the influence of Holy Spirit,
James would have written and spoken in harmony with Holy Spirit.
And, of course, his letter, the letter of James, was written under inspiration.
So, when Bible writers were inspired, their letters and their writings were without error.
Now, one last example. Turn to Colossians 4 and verse 16.
And Paul writes, and when this letter has been read among you, arrange for it also to be read in the congregation of the Leodiceans,
and for you also to read the one from Leodicea.
The letter to the Colossians inspired. The letter to the Leodiceans not inspired.
Well, how was the decision made?
Now, the Catholic Church claims that the so-called fathers of the church made the decision
that they are the ones who compiled the Bible canon at the Council of Carthage in 397 CE.
But the decision was made much, much earlier than that.
And we have a clue when we read Peter's words at 2 Peter chapter 3 and verse 16.
We often read this verse for another reason.
But let's read 2 Peter 3, 16, and think about the Bible canon.
And here, Peter is talking about Paul.
And he says, speaking about these things, as he does in all his letters.
Now, Peter here is writing in the year 64.
And that means that at least 13 of Paul's 14 letters had already been circulated.
So he talks about Paul writing in all his letters.
However, some things in them are hard to understand.
And these things, the ignorant and unstable, are twisting as they do also the rest of the scriptures.
So here, already in the year 64, a decision had been made that Paul's letters were part of the scriptures.
How? Well, we have an answer to the question.
We keep asking the question, but we have an answer to it.
The answer is found in 1 Corinthians chapter 12 and verse 10.
Have you remember our point in reading this?
We're looking for the way in which Christians were able to determine in the first century which Bible books and letters were inspired in which were not.
So Paul is talking about the gifts of the Spirit here.
And he says that there was given to yet another operations of powerful works.
To another prophesying, to another discernment of inspired expressions.
Certain Christians in the first century had a miraculous gift of the Spirit that allowed them to determine to discern which writings were inspired and which were not.
And that is how the Bible canon came together.
And when you think of it, it really makes sense, doesn't it?
Holy Spirit guided the writing of the Bible.
And Holy Spirit guided the collection of the inspired writings together into what we now know as all scripture.
All scripture is inspired of God.